---
layout: post
title:  "Confusion verse Questioning"
date:   2020-09-15 07:10:59 -0500
category: 
tags: humanlearnings
---
Let me pause. This series, as I was writing this post, seemed to be unfocused, debating something incredibly abstract and likely pointless — how do I distinguish thoughts which confuse my direction in life and thoughts which wisely question the decision. So instead let me make sure I understand the motivation of this series. The purpose is to understand how I can get in touch with my true desires, with how I feel and what I want, both moment to moment and with life's big decisions.

With my blog, for example, I had many criticisms: care for the reader; write well; only post essays which have value; no one cares about what makes you laugh. Just laugh and stop thinking about it. Definitive, for the sake of god and all his children, don't write a whole blog post about it. These are healthy questions and thoughts. Yet they blocked me from doing what I truly wanted...to blog everyday.

I want to understand 

1. What blocked me?
2. What are the dangers, both with being blocked and being too free? 
3. How to distinguish these?
4. How does someone rightly in touch with their intuition move throughout the world?

My short answer is to simply be in touch with what you want. What do you want in this moment? What do you want in your life? And to be in touch with your desires in a healthy way.

---

In order to find out what it's like to be in touch with your desires in a healthy way, let's look at the two sides of the spectrum, the two extremes:

1. The man controlled by his ego and the rules that he was raised on. This person can't do anything uniquely him. He can't do anything unless he knows the father approves. He can't do anything unless he knows it fits within the box of society. These are the Karen's of the world. 

In my own experience, I remember taking salsa classes. Typically how classes go is the teacher teaches a set of steps and the students repeat those over and over until they are embodied. I often knew these steps already, so if I had a partner who I also also knew them, I would enjoy the music and branch out, mixing in other steps. There's always someone who will not step out. "The teacher said practice these steps." 

These people miss the purpose of why we are there. They're too rigid. Unable to go with the flow of the moment, because the teacher gave them rules. 

Lastly, this side of the spectrum tends to be out of touch with emotions:

> People who have been injured in an area of the brain that emotions are generated often have difficulty making decisions. 
- [(big think article)] ([https://bigthink.com/experts-corner/decisions-are-emotional-not-logical-the-neuroscience-behind-decision-making](https://bigthink.com/experts-corner/decisions-are-emotional-not-logical-the-neuroscience-behind-decision-making))

We make decisions based on emotions, not logic. 

Second, on the other side of things, what happens when someone completely drops their ego, drops all rules, and is purely guided by their wants, their desires, and their emotions.

I picture someone who is deeply in touch with their intuition to freely move through the world guided by that. If they want to say someone to someone on the street, they don't hesitate. If they want to cry on the subway, they don't hesitate. There's no voice, no ego whispering you don't want to be that crazy person sobbing on the subway.

The ego does protect us. Someone dettached from it would scream in church if they feel called to do that. Or they would talk to a pretty girl even though she's with a scary biker boyfriend. 

> The Ego is in fact vital to our survival. ... Its proper role is to stand back and observe, to scan the horizon, to monitor the data coming in from both the outside and the inside and then, out of its wisdom make the the necessary life decisions.
- King, Warrior, Magician, Lover

Many of those built up cultural rules, many of those ways of your fathers whisper in your ear because they are wisdom learned over your lifetime. 

So if we completely drop that, we are someone who puts ourselves in danger. Secondly, if we completely drop it and only follow our desires, we could lead down a path like Osho led. I believe he completely tried to live his life dettached from all cultural rules and norms, with the belief that his emotions and desires are the only thing that matters. Quickly, you see how this gets out of touch with reality. Quickly, you see, he's buying 10 million dollar cars because he wants to. For all his insights and wisdom, it's not the right way of life demanding fellatio at 45-minute intervals.

So I ask, what's the right balance between rigidly dancing and fellatio on demand?

---