---
layout: post
title:  "Origin memory, the root of life's problems: Westworld's Benerad"
date:   2020-09-14 07:10:59 -0500
category: 
tags: likestoriesofold
---
I just finished the first season of Westworld and towards the end, one of the main characters, Benerad finally confronted a past memory, of his son dying. Through the whole season, he relives this memory again and again. But this last time, he decides he's going to confront it. It's going to relive it and not run away. What happens is an incredible idea that I've been seeing over and over throughout my days. 

He confronts this memory, this memory that repeatedly holds him back, and after he relives through it — he breaks into the other side. Suddenly his first memories can be seen and enjoyed. He had been completely blind to anything that came before that memory.

We all have these blockages, these unconscious defensives. Often we can break through them with people who care and are persistent. People who love us enough to make us uncomfortable when the time is right.

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZQht2yOX9Js](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZQht2yOX9Js)

But this extends beyond unconscious reactions, into deep layers within the patterns of the body which we must break through, in order to be who we want to be. In my own life, I've always had a poor relationship with my voice. It lacks power and wholeness. I mumble and eat my words. Never have I sung karaoke. Whenever I speak in front of a group of people, my belly, my voice, and my lips tremble. 

Once, in Vancouver, I witnessed a guy applaud another stranger from 100 yards away with a booming howl. I wanted that ability. 

Only now, I'm starting to make true progress towards that, by playing around with my belly and my voice — making all sorts of sounds, moans, sighs, screams, whimpers, releasing it all. Often I feel within my body these blockages. I feel this points of resistance, especially in my chest. But day after day, I uncomfortable face and feel those. Soon, with persistence and presence, I will break into the other side, where I'll feel a deeper layer of myself.